---
layout: post
title: God, I love Emacs
author: root
catagory: daily
---

I used to use Sublime text, and for a while I was content. But then I started a project with one of my friends who used Emacs. He showed me some basic stuff with it and it was so cool that I decided to switch over right then and there. 

#### The Learning Curve

It was hard. It took me weeks to be comfortable enough to navagate files, arguably the most basic part of using a text editor. Was it worth it? Yes for sure. My development time sped up considerably, and now I feel slow whenever I have to use an editor other than emacs. 

#### Emacs vs Vim

I used both, they're both cool :)

#### Quick Basics

Wanna give it a try? Here's a quick primer. 

1. C = Control Key
2. M = Alt Key

##### Basic Cursor Movement

1. C + f = Move forwards 
2. C + b = Move back
3. C + p = Move up (prev. line)
4. C + n = Move down (next line)

These 4 commands correspond to HJKL in Vim.

1. C + a = Beginning of the line
1. C + e = End of the line
1. C + v = Scroll Down
1. M + v = Scroll up

##### Other Commands

1. C + x = Command. Some commands in Emacs start with C + x
1. C + x, C + c = First thing we need to do is learn to exit
1. C + x, C + s = Whoops, save your file first.
1. C + s = Lets you search in page!
1. C + x, C + f = Opens up a  different file
1. C + x, C + b = Shows your your currently open buffers
1. C + x, b = Lets you switch buffers quickly
1. C + x, h = Select all text
1. C + <spacebar> = Set mark. When you move your cursor, text will highlight starting from the initial position.
1. C + x, 2 = Opens a new window vertically
1. C + x, 3 = Opens a new window horizontally
1. C + x, 1 = Closes all other windows
1. C + x, 0 = Closes your active window
1. C + x, o = Switches to the next
1. M + x, term = Lets you use your terminal inside Emacs 

##### Fun stuff

1. M + x, tetris = Lets you play my favorite game :D
1. M + x, doctor = Lets you speak to a Doctor
1. M + x, zone = Creates like a screensaver effect

#### End stuff

That's about it. There are of course way more things that I haven't even mentioned, and even more that I don't know about. Yes I wrote this post in Emacs.

 

